Hi, and welcome to this lecture on Amazon EFS,
Elastic File System.
So EFS is a managed NFS, which is a network file system.
And because it's a network file system,
it can be mounted on many EC2 instances,
and these EC2 instances can also be
in different availability zones,
that's the whole power of EFS.
So it's highly available,
it's very scalable, it's expensive.
It's about three times the cost of a GP2 EBS volume,
and you pay per use
so you don't have to provision capacity in advance.
Let me explain.
So you have your EFS file system
and you surround it with a security group.
And then you can have EC2 instances, many of them
in the US east-1A availability zone for example,
or EC2 instances in the US east-1B availability zone
or US east-1C availability zones for your EC2 instances.
And they can all connect at the same time
to the same network file system through through EFS.
So the use cases of EFS are content management,
web serving, data sharing, WordPress.
It uses internally the NFS protocol,
and to control access to your EFS,
you need to set up a security group.
Now EFS, it's very important to note
that it's only compatible with Linux-based AMI
and not Windows.
You can enable encryption at rest in your EFS drive
using KMS, and it's a standard file system on Linux,
so uses the POSIX system, and it has a standard file API.
And the cool thing about EFS
is that you don't need to plan the capacity in advance.
The file system will scale automatically,
and it's pay-per-use
for each gigabyte of data you use in EFS.
Then we have different performance and storage classes.
So first, the scale about EFS.
You get thousands of concurrent NFS clients
and 10 gigabytes plus of throughput,
and you can grow to a petabyte scale
network file system automatically, which is really nice.
You can also set the performance mode
at the EFS network file system creation time,
and you have several options.
The first one is general purpose, which is the default.
It's used for latency sensitive use cases
such as a web server, a CMS, et cetera.
But if you wanted to maximize throughput, you have max I/O,
which is a high latency kind of network file system,
but higher throughput and it's highly parallel.
So it's great if you have big data applications
or media processing needs.
Now, throughput mode, you have different options.
The first one is bursting.
So you have one terabyte,
means that it's 50 megabytes per second
plus burst of to 100 megabytes per second,
so that's the kind of bursting you get.
You don't have to remember the numbers,
but just to give you an idea.
Provisioned is when you want to set your throughput
regardless of your storage size.
So the previous one was growing in throughput
as we have more storage, but with provisions
you can have one gigabyte per second
for one terabyte of storage.
That is fine because you have decorrelated
your throughput from your storage.
And finally, to make things a little bit simpler,
you have elastic to automatically scale the throughput
up and down based on your workload.
So for example,
you can get up to three gigabytes per second for reads
and one gigabyte per second for writes
based on your workload,
and this is going to be a great fit
when you have unpredictable workloads.
Now for storage classes we have several options.
We have storage tiers,
which is a lifecycle management feature
to allow you to move files to different storage tiers
after a certain number of days.
So you have the standard tier
which is used for frequently accessed files,
and then you have the EFS-IA tier for infrequent access,
which gives you a cost to retrieve files
but a lower price to store these files.
And then you have the archive storage tier.
This is for rarely accessed data, so you only access,
for example, data a few times a year,
which is going to be a lot cheaper
to store the data on that tier.
To move your files automatically between your storage tiers,
you can implement lifecycle policies,
which will allow you define after how many days
a file should be moved to which tier.
So here's an example in which we have files in EFS standard,
and one of these files hasn't been accessed for 60 days.
Then by setting up the right lifecycle policy,
we can move it to a new storage tier such as EFS-IA.
Now, in terms of availability and durability,
standard is going to be great
when you have a multi-AZ setup,
so your EFS across multiple availability zones,
which is great for your production workloads
so that you're resistant to disasters.
But if you just want to do development
and want to have cheaper options, then you choose one zone,
which is going to give you only one availability zone,
and you will still have backups on it,
and it's also compatible with the IA type of storage tier.
So you have the EFS one zone-IA type of option.
Overall, by using the right EFS storage classes,
you can do up to 90% in cost savings,
so this is very helpful.
So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.